1.Device specific checklist
1.1 Can the app be installed on the device?
1.2 Does the app behave as designed/desired if there is an incoming call?
1.3 Does the app behave as designed/desired if there is an incoming SMS?
1.4 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the charger is connected?
1.5 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the charger is disconnected?
1.6 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the device goes to sleeping mode?
1.7 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the device goes from sleeping mode?
1.8 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the device resumes from the lock screen?
1.9 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the device is tilted?
1.10 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the device is shaken?
1.11 Does the app behave as designed/desired if there is a push notification message coming from in -built apps (calendar reminders,to-do tasks etc.)?
1.12 Does the app behave as designed/desired if a push message is coming from another app (like Whatsapp,Instagram,Twitter,Gmail etc)?
1.13 Does the app interact with the GPS sensor correctly (switch on/off,retrieve GPS data)?
1.14 Is the functionality of all the buttons or keys on the device defined for this app?
1.15 Verify that buttons or keys which are not defined function have no unexpected behavior on the app when pressed.
1.16 In case there is a true “back” button available on the device does the “back” button take the user to the previous screen?
1.17 In case there is a true “menu”button available on the device  does the “menu”button show the app’s menu?
1.18  In case there is a true “home” button available on the device does the “home” button get the user back to the home screen on the device?
1.19 In case there is a true “search” button available on the device does this get the user back to some form of search within the app?
1.20 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the “low battery” message is pushed?
1.21 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the sound on the device is turned off?
1.22 Does the app behave as designed/desired if the device is in airplane mode?
1.23 Can the app be uninstalled from the device?
1.24 Does the application function as expected after re-installation?
1.25 Can the app be found in the play store or app store(check after it goes live)
1.26 Can the app switch to different apps on the device through multitasking as designed/desired?
1.27 Are all touch screen positions(buttons) working when a screen protector is used?

Network specific checklist
2.1 Does the app behave according to specification if connected to the internet through Wi-Fi?
2.2  Does the app behave according to specification if connected to the internet through 2G,3G,4G data network?
2.3 Does the app behave according to specification and show error message when the app is out of network reach?
2.4 Does the app resume working when it gets back into network reach?
2.5 Does the app still work correctly when tethering or otherwise to another device?
2.6 What happens if the app switches between networks(Wi-Fi,3G,2G and 4G)?

2.7 Does the app use standard network ports( Mail:25,143,465,993,995  HTTP:80 or 443 SFTP:22) to connect to remote services as some providers block certain ports?

Application specific checklist
3.1 Has the app tested on different types of devices and different versions of OS?
3.2 Stability check:If the app has a list (for instance of pictures) in it,try scrolling through it at high speed.
3.3 Stability check:If the app has a list (for instance of pictures) in it,try scrolling to before the first picture per entry and beyond the last picture or entry.
3.4 Is downloading of the app prevented in case it’s bigger than the OS allows downloading when connected to cellular network.
3.5 Integration: does the app connect correctly to the different social networks(LinkedIn,Twitter,FB etc) or to any other application or site.
3.6 The app does not interfere with other apps when in background/multitasking mode (using GPS,playing music etc.)
3.7 Can the user print from the app(if applicable)?
3.8 The search option in the app displays relevant results
3.9 What happens when you select different options at the same time(undesired multitouch)
3.10 Does the app limit or clean the amount of cached data?
3.11 Does the app go to sleep mode when running in the background (prevent battery drain)
3.12 Does app is asking permission to access a particular feature of the phone?(f.ex.Calendar,Contacts,location,GPS etc.)

Application User Interface checklist
4.1 Make it possible for users to go back to a previous screen for instance by adding a back or cancel button.
4.2 Use at most one action on the screen that is highlighted as the most likely for the users(ex.in IOS a blue button represents the default or most likely action)
4.3 If there is a long list of data to scroll through,provide a search option above the list
4.4 If performance is slow ,indicate a progress status icon”Loading”,preferable with a specific message.
4.5 The app should respond to all changes in device orientation,as rep the design
4.6 If the app is stopped at an unexpected time,user data should be saved locally and available at start-up.
4.7 users should be warned of the consequences of deleting a document
4.8 Keyboard adjusts according to the input (ex.number/letters  keypad should open up in case of phone number field



